# OWASP Top 10 2021 介紹

歡迎來到最新版本的 OWASP Top 10！! OWASP Top 10 2021 是一個全薪，包含了你可以
列印下來的新的圖示說明，若有需要的話，你可以從我們的網頁上面下載。

在此我們想對所有貢獻了他們時間和資料的人給予一個極大的感謝。沒有你們，這一個新版本是
不會出現的。**謝謝**。

## Top 10 for 2021 有什麼新的變化？

這次在 OWASP Top 10 for 2021 有三個全新的分類，有四個分類有做名稱和範圍的修正，並有將一些類別做合併。


<img src="./assets/image1.png" style="width:6.5in;height:1.78889in" alt="Mapping of the relationship between the Top 10 2017 and the new Top 10 2021" />

**A01:2021-Broken Access Control** moves up from the fifth position; 94%
of applications were tested for some form of broken access control. The
34 CWEs mapped to Broken Access Control had more occurrences in
applications than any other category.

**A02:2021-Cryptographic Failures** shifts up one position to #2,
previously known as *Sensitive Data Exposure,* which was broad symptom
rather than a root cause. The renewed focus here is on failures related
to cryptography which often leads to sensitive data exposure or system
compromise.

**A03:2021-Injection** slides down to the third position. 94% of the
applications were tested for some form of injection, and the 33 CWEs
mapped into this category have the second most occurrences in
applications. Cross-site Scripting is now part of this category in this
edition.

**A04:2021-Insecure Design** is a new category for 2021, with a focus on
risks related to design flaws. If we genuinely want to "move left" as an
industry, it calls for more use of threat modeling, secure design
patterns and principles, and reference architectures.

**A05:2021-Security Misconfiguration** moves up from #6 in the previous
edition; 90% of applications were tested for some form of
misconfiguration. With more shifts into highly configurable software,
it's not surprising to see this category move up. The former category
for XML External Entities (XXE) is now part of this category.

**A06:2021-Vulnerable and Outdated Components** was previously titled
*Using Components with Known Vulnerabilities* and is #2 in the industry
survey, but also had enough data to make the Top 10 via data analysis.
This category moves up from #9 in 2017 and is a known issue that we
struggle to test and assess risk. It is the only category not to have
any CVEs mapped to the included CWEs, so a default exploit and impact
weights of 5.0 are factored into their scores.

**A07:2021-Identification and Authentication Failures** was previously
*Broken Authentication* and is sliding down from the second position,
and now includes CWEs that are more related to identification failures.
This category is still an integral part of the Top 10, but the increased
availability of standardized frameworks seems to be helping.

**A08:2021-Software and Data Integrity Failures** is a new category for
2021, focusing on making assumptions related to software updates,
critical data, and CI/CD pipelines without verifying integrity. One of
the highest weighted impacts from CVE/CVSS data mapped to the 10 CWEs in
this category. Insecure Deserialization from 2017 is now a part of this
larger category.

**A09:2021-Security Logging and Monitoring Failures** was previously
*Insufficient Logging &* Monitoring and is added from the industry
survey (#3), moving up from #10 previously. This category is expanded to
include more types of failures, is challenging to test for, and isn't
well represented in the CVE/CVSS data. However, failures in this
category can directly impact visibility, incident alerting, and
forensics.

**A10:2021-Server-Side Request Forgery** is added from the industry
survey (#1). The data shows a relatively low incidence rate with above
average testing coverage, along with above-average ratings for Exploit
and Impact potential. This category represents the scenario where the
industry professionals are telling us this is important, even though
it's not illustrated in the data at this time.

## Methodology

This installment of the Top 10 is more data-driven than ever but not
blindly data-driven. We selected eight of the ten categories from
contributed data and two categories from an industry survey at a high
level. We do this for a fundamental reason, looking at the contributed
data is looking into the past. AppSec researchers take time to find new
vulnerabilities and new ways to test for them. It takes time to
integrate these tests into tools and processes. By the time we can
reliably test a weakness at scale, years have likely passed. To balance
that view, we use an industry survey to ask people on the front lines
what they see as essential weaknesses that the data may not show yet.

There are a few critical changes that we adopted to continue to mature
the Top 10.

### How the categories are structured

A few categories have changed from the previous installment of the OWASP
Top Ten. Here is a high-level summary of the category changes.

Previous data collection efforts were focused on a prescribed subset of
approximately 30 CWEs with a field asking for additional findings. We
learned that organizations would primarily focus on just those 30 CWEs
and rarely add additional CWEs that they saw. In this iteration, we
opened it up and just asked for data, with no restriction on CWEs. We
asked for the number of applications tested for a given year (starting
in 2017), and the number of applications with at least one instance of a
CWE found in testing. This format allows us to track how prevalent each
CWE is within the population of applications. We ignore frequency for
our purposes; while it may be necessary for other situations, it only
hides the actual prevalence in the application population. Whether an
application has four instances of a CWE or 4,000 instances is not part
of the calculation for the Top 10. We went from approximately 30 CWEs to
almost 400 CWEs to analyze in the dataset. We plan to do additional data
analysis as a supplement in the future. This significant increase in the
number of CWEs necessitates changes to how the categories are
structured.

We spent several months grouping and categorizing CWEs and could have
continued for additional months. We had to stop at some point. There are
both *root cause* and *symptom* types of CWEs, where *root cause* types
are like "Cryptographic Failure" and "Misconfiguration" contrasted to
*symptom* types like "Sensitive Data Exposure" and "Denial of Service."
We decided to focus on the root cause whenever possible as it's more
logical for providing identification and remediation guidance. Focusing
on the root cause over the symptom isn't a new concept; the Top Ten has
been a mix of *symptom* and *root cause*. CWEs are also a mix of
*symptom* and *root cause*; we are simply being more deliberate about it
and calling it out. There is an average of 19.6 CWEs per category in
this installment, with the lower bounds at 1 CWE for
*A10:2021-Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)* to 40 CWEs in
*A04:2021-Insecure Design*. This updated category structure offers
additional training benefits as companies can focus on CWEs that make
sense for a language/framework.

### How the data is used for selecting categories

In 2017, we selected categories by incidence rate to determine
likelihood, then ranked them by team discussion based on decades of
experience for Exploitability, Detectability (also likelihood), and
Technical Impact. For 2021, we want to use data for Exploitability and
Impact if possible.

We downloaded OWASP Dependency Check and extracted the CVSS Exploit, and
Impact scores grouped by related CWEs. It took a fair bit of research
and effort as all the CVEs have CVSSv2 scores, but there are flaws in
CVSSv2 that CVSSv3 should address. After a certain point in time, all
CVEs are assigned a CVSSv3 score as well. Additionally, the scoring
ranges and formulas were updated between CVSSv2 and CVSSv3.

In CVSSv2, both Exploit and Impact could be up to 10.0, but the formula
would knock them down to 60% for Exploit and 40% for Impact. In CVSSv3,
the theoretical max was limited to 6.0 for Exploit and 4.0 for Impact.
With the weighting considered, the Impact scoring shifted higher, almost
a point and a half on average in CVSSv3, and exploitability moved nearly
half a point lower on average.

There are 125k records of a CVE mapped to a CWE in the NVD data
extracted from OWASP Dependency Check, and there are 241 unique CWEs
mapped to a CVE. 62k CWE maps have a CVSSv3 score, which is
approximately half of the population in the data set.

For the Top Ten, we calculated average exploit and impact scores in the
following manner. We grouped all the CVEs with CVSS scores by CWE and
weighted both exploit and impact scored by the percentage of the
population that had CVSSv3 + the remaining population of CVSSv2 scores
to get an overall average. We mapped these averages to the CWEs in the
dataset to use as Exploit and Impact scoring for the other half of the
risk equation.

## Why not just pure statistical data?

The results in the data are primarily limited to what we can test for in
an automated fashion. Talk to a seasoned AppSec professional, and they
will tell you about stuff they find and trends they see that aren't yet
in the data. It takes time for people to develop testing methodologies
for certain vulnerability types and then more time for those tests to be
automated and run against a large population of applications. Everything
we find is looking back in the past and might be missing trends from the
last year, which are not present in the data.

Therefore, we only pick eight of ten categories from the data because
it's incomplete. The other two categories are from the industry survey.
It allows the practitioners on the front lines to vote for what they see
as the highest risks that might not be in the data (and may never be
expressed in data).

## Why incidence rate instead of frequency?

There are three primary sources of data. We identify them as
Human-assisted Tooling (HaT), Tool-assisted Human (TaH), and raw
Tooling.

Tooling and HaT are high-frequency finding generators. Tools will look
for specific vulnerabilities and tirelessly attempt to find every
instance of that vulnerability and will generate high finding counts for
some vulnerability types. Look at Cross-Site Scripting, which is
typically one of two flavors: it's either a more minor, isolated mistake
or a systemic issue. When it's a systemic issue, the finding counts can
be in the thousands for an application. This high frequency drowns out
most other vulnerabilities found in reports or data.

TaH, on the other hand, will find a broader range of vulnerability types
but at a much lower frequency due to time constraints. When humans test
an application and see something like Cross-Site Scripting, they will
typically find three or four instances and stop. They can determine a
systemic finding and write it up with a recommendation to fix on an
application-wide scale. There is no need (or time) to find every
instance.

Suppose we take these two distinct data sets and try to merge them on
frequency. In that case, the Tooling and HaT data will drown the more
accurate (but broad) TaH data and is a good part of why something like
Cross-Site Scripting has been so highly ranked in many lists when the
impact is generally low to moderate. It's because of the sheer volume of
findings. (Cross-Site Scripting is also reasonably easy to test for, so
there are many more tests for it as well).

In 2017, we introduced using incidence rate instead to take a fresh look
at the data and cleanly merge Tooling and HaT data with TaH data. The
incidence rate asks what percentage of the application population had at
least one instance of a vulnerability type. We don't care if it was
one-off or systemic. That's irrelevant for our purposes; we just need to
know how many applications had at least one instance, which helps
provide a clearer view of the testing is findings across multiple
testing types without drowning the data in high-frequency results.

## What is your data collection and analysis process?

We formalized the OWASP Top 10 data collection process at the Open
Security Summit in 2017. OWASP Top 10 leaders and the community spent
two days working out formalizing a transparent data collection process.
The 2021 edition is the second time we have used this methodology.

We publish a call for data through social media channels available to
us, both project and OWASP. On the [OWASP Project
page](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/#div-data_2020), we list the
data elements and structure we are looking for and how to submit them.
In the [GitHub
project](https://github.com/OWASP/Top10/tree/master/2020/Data), we have
example files that serve as templates. We work with organizations as
needed to help figure out the structure and mapping to CWEs.

We get data from organizations that are testing vendors by trade, bug
bounty vendors, and organizations that contribute internal testing data.
Once we have the data, we load it together and run a fundamental
analysis of what CWEs map to risk categories. There is overlap between
some CWEs, and others are very closely related (ex. Cryptographic
vulnerabilities). Any decisions related to the raw data submitted are
documented and published to be open and transparent with how we
normalized the data.

We look at the eight categories with the highest incidence rates for
inclusion in the Top 10. We also look at the industry survey results to
see which ones may already be present in the data. The top two votes
that aren't already present in the data will be selected for the other
two places in the Top 10. Once all ten were selected, we applied
generalized factors for exploitability and impact; to help rank the Top
10 in order.

## Data Factors

There are data factors that are listed for each of the Top 10
Categories, here is what they mean:

-   *CWEs Mapped*: The number of CWEs mapped to a category by the Top 10
    team.

-   *Incidence Rate*: Incidence rate is the percentage of applications
    vulnerable to that CWE from the population tested by that org for
    that year.

-   (Testing) *Coverage*: The percentage of applications tested by all
    organizations for a given CWE.

-   *Weighted Exploit*: The Exploit sub-score from CVSSv2 and CVSSv3
    scores assigned to CVEs mapped to CWEs, normalized, and placed on a
    10pt scale.

-   *Weighted Impact*: The Impact sub-score from CVSSv2 and CVSSv3
    scores assigned to CVEs mapped to CWEs, normalized, and placed on a
    10pt scale.

-   *Total Occurrences*: Total number of applications found to have the
    CWEs mapped to a category.

-   *Total CVEs*: Total number of CVEs in the NVD DB that were mapped to
    the CWEs mapped to a category.

## Category Relationships from 2017

There has been a lot of talk about the overlap between the Top Ten
risks. By the definition of each (list of CWEs included), there really
isn't any overlap. However, conceptually, there can be overlap or
interactions based on the higher-level naming. Venn diagrams are many
times used to show overlap like this.

<img src="./assets/image2.png" style="width:4.31736in;height:3.71339in" alt="Diagram Description automatically generated" />

The Venn diagram above represents the interactions between the Top Ten
2017 risk categories. While doing so, a couple of essential points
became obvious:

1.  One could argue that Cross-Site Scripting ultimately belongs within
    Injection as it's essentially Content Injection. Looking at the 2021
    data, it became even more evident that XSS needed to move into
    Injection.

2.  The overlap is only in one direction. We will often classify a
    vulnerability by the end manifestation or "symptom," not the
    (potentially deep) root cause. For instance, "Sensitive Data
    Exposure" may have been the result of a "Security Misconfiguration";
    however, you won't see it in the other direction. As a result,
    arrows are drawn in the interaction zones to indicate which
    direction it occurs.

3.  Sometimes these diagrams are drawn with everything in *A06:2021
    Using Components with Known Vulnerabilities*. While some of these
    risk categories may be the root cause of third-party
    vulnerabilities, they are generally managed differently and with
    different responsibilities. The other types are typically
    representing first-party risks.

# Thank you to our data contributors

The following organizations (along with some anonymous donors) kindly
donated data for over 500,000 applications to make this the largest and
most comprehensive application security data set. Without you, this
would not be possible.

| | | | |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| AppSec Labs | GitLab | Micro Focus | Sqreen |
| Cobalt.io | HackerOne | PenTest-Tools | Veracode |
| Contrast Security | HCL Technologies | Probely | WhiteHat (NTT) |

